
--- PAGE 1 ---
This section of the game manual is a basic overview of the user interface, gameplay, and standard terminology
within the game. NARUTOARENA is a turn based strategy game where your team of three ninjas is pitted against
another player's team of three ninjas with the goal of reducing your opposition to 0 health points and winning the
match.
>> How to put images in the game
1: Join our Discord Server. [CLICK HERE]
2: Go to the #theme channel on it.
3: While logged in, activate one of the themes made by the community.
4: Done! You can play the game full of images once again!
 
23/05/2026 16:24 NARUTO ARENA - Your turn-based, tactical online multiplayer game played in the browser.
https://naruto-arena.net/en/the-basics 1/8

--- PAGE 2 ---
>> Selection Screen
The first thing you will see when beginning a game of NARUTOARENA is the screen above (without the big blue
letters). This is the Character Selection screen and what ever is and does is explained below.
A: This section displays your player information. It shows your avatar, username, ninja rank, ladder level and
experience, ladder rank, win-loss record, and win-loss streak, all in that order.
B: This section has three boxes for you to drag and drop the ninjas you wish to use in your team. Only when you
have selected three ninjas may you begin a match.
C: This is the character section. Each page has 21 characters on it and you use the white arrows to scroll through
the pages. Some characters may appear grayed-out and you will not be able to drag these characters into your
team. These characters are mission characters and you must complete their mission before you may use them.
 
23/05/2026 16:24 NARUTO ARENA - Your turn-based, tactical online multiplayer game played in the browser.
https://naruto-arena.net/en/the-basics 2/8

--- PAGE 3 ---
D: This is where individual character information is displayed. By clicking on a character's icon in section 'C' this
section will appear. The primary function of this section is so that you may study that character's skills.
E: By clicking on a skill icon of a character in section 'D' this section will display the information about that skill.
The upper left red text is the name of the skill. The upper right is the energy  cost of the skill. The center is the
description of the skill, essential saying what the skill does. The bottom left lists the classes of that skill. The
bottom right displays that skill's cooldown.
F: The three buttons at the middle will begin a match with another opponent. There are three different types of
games you may play. A ladder game is played against a random opponent near you on the ladder. This game type
is the only way to increase your standing within the ladder. A quick game is played against a random opponent.
This game does not count towards your ladder stats but does towards your missions. A private game works just
like a quick game except that you must specify the particular opponent you wish to play against and your
opponent must do the same.
>> In-Game Screen
Next will be the in-game UI (again, the yellow letters do not exist on the real UI) and the basics of how to play.
A: This section displays you and your opponent's avatars, the 'press when ready' button which is how you end your
turn (this will say 'opponent's turn' when it is not your turn), a red and white bar which is your turn timer, and
your energy  pool. There are four types of energy  in NARUTOARENA, Taijutsu (green), Bloodline (red), Ninjutsu
(blue), and Genjutsu (white). The 'T' is your current total energy  in your pool. With the exception of the first
player to take a turn (they only receive one energy ) you will receive a number of random energy  equal to how
many of your ninjas were alive at the end of your last turn.
B: This section displays your team and the current health of each ninja in it. Skills affecting these characters will
also be shown here by small icons next to the character's icon. By scrolling your curser over that icon a
description of what the skill is doing will appear.
 
23/05/2026 16:24 NARUTO ARENA - Your turn-based, tactical online multiplayer game played in the browser.
https://naruto-arena.net/en/the-basics 3/8

--- PAGE 4 ---
C: This section displays your opponent's team and functions just like section 'B'.
D: This is where your characters' skills are displayed. Each character can use one skill per turn, provided you have
sufficient energy  of the appropriate types to pay their costs. Any skill that cannot be used that turn for any
reason is grayed-out. By clicking on a skill, viable targets for that skill with glow yellow and you must then click
on one of these viable targets for that skill to be used. When a skill has been selected for a character that turn,
its icon will display in the gray '?' box. To deselect a skill simply double click its icon in the gray '?' box.
E: This section is exactly like section 'E' of the Character Selection screen.
F: This section is where you can chooses to surrender a match, open a chat window with your opponent, or adjust
the sound settings.
>> Energy  Types
As mentioned above energy  is used to perform skills. Every skill uses a different set of energy . There are 4 types of
energy :
Bloodline
Ninjutsu
Taijutsu
Genjutsu
The chance to get a certain energy  is 25% for each, as there are four types. This means that it is random, and that
you can also get multiple energy s of one type. Next to these 4 types, some skills require random energy .
This kind of energy  can be filled in by any of the types above.
>> End of Your Turn
Once you have decided what skills your team will use and on whom it is time to end your turn. Do this by clicking on
the 'Press When Ready' button in section 'A'. This will bring you to the Skill Queue.
This is where you will spend specific energy  as random energy  by clicking the up or down buttons next to each type.
It is also where you can decide the order your skills will happen in. Skills occur in order from left to right and they
may be repositioned in the queue by dragging and dropping the icons. After spending any necessary random energy
costs and ordering your skills press the O.K. button to complete your turn (note that this is still part of your turn and
your turn timer will continue to run down while in this screen). If you want to reconsider or change something you
chose to do press the Cancel button to exit this screen. If you run out of time before completing your turn, your
characters will not use any skills that turn.
>> Common Terminology in NARUTOARENA:
This section is laid out so that you may use your browser's find (ctrl+F) function to easily locate any terms you need
to find the definition of.
Common terms in a skill's description:
 
23/05/2026 16:24 NARUTO ARENA - Your turn-based, tactical online multiplayer game played in the browser.
https://naruto-arena.net/en/the-basics 4/8

--- PAGE 5 ---
Damage: Damage is the tool used to reduce your opponents' health. It's also called normal damage and it doesn't
go through damage reduction or destructible defense.
Piercing Damage: A type of damage that ignores damage reduction.
Affliction Damage: A type of damage that ignores damage reduction and destructible defense.
Health Steal: This effect steals your opponent's health rather than just dealing damage to them. For example, if
you steal 20 health from them, you will be healed by 20 health as well. Health Steal goes through damage
reduction but it doesn't go through destructible defense. However, if you affect an opponent's destructible
defense rather than their health itself by using a health steal effect, your character will not be healed by the
same amount.
ATTENTION: Health Steal is NOT a type of damage and it's not healing either, but it can be increased by damage
increase effects.
Original Damage: It's the damage a skill deals disconsidering damage increase or decrease effects.
Straight Damage Change: Still within the definition of "original damage", a straight damage change is when the
damage a skill deals is changed rather than increased or decreased.
FOR EXAMPLE: "SkillX will deal 60 damage instead of 30 damage." This is NOT the same thing as "SkillX will deal 30
additional damage."
Damage Reduction: This means that any normal damage dealt to a character will be reduced by a fixed amount
after all damage dealt that turn is calculated.
FOR EXAMPLE: 50 points of damage reduction from 120 damage taken from all skills will make your character take
70 damage instead. This effect is ignored by piercing and affliction damage.
Unpierceable Damage Reduction: It has the same definition as damage reduction, but piercing damage doesn't
ignore unpierceable damage reduction.
Destructible Defense: This effect gives a character a pool of health (like some sort of "shield") that must first be
depleted before the character will take damage. This effect is ignored by affliction damage.
Invulnerable: This means the character affected will not be a valid target for new enemy skills (by default),
though they may still be affected by enemy instant skills already affecting them. If the skill doesn't specify if the
character is invulnerable to harmful effects/skills, helpful effects/skills or both, this means the character is
invulnerable to harmful skills.
Harmful/enemy skills: Any skill used that somehow affects (directly) a character on the opposing team.
Harmful effects: Any effect coming from a harmful/enemy skill.
Helpful/friendly skills: Any skill used that somehow affects (directly) a character on the caster's team.
ATTENTION: Any skill used by one of your characters that has a non-damage effect targeting that character or an
ally is considered a helpful/friendly skill.
Helpful effects: Any effect coming from a helpful/friendly skill.
Conditional effects: A conditional effect is an effect that needs a condition to be achieved so that effect is put
into work.
FOR EXAMPLE: "If this character uses a new skill, they will be stunned for 1 turn.".
Non-conditional effects: A non-conditional effect (also called a direct effect) is an effect that does not need a
condition to be achieved so that effect is put into work.
 
23/05/2026 16:24 NARUTO ARENA - Your turn-based, tactical online multiplayer game played in the browser.
https://naruto-arena.net/en/the-basics 5/8

--- PAGE 6 ---
FOR EXAMPLE: "This character will be stunned for 1 turn.".
Stun: This means a character is unable to use a skill for the duration that the stun is in effect. If it just says "This
character is stunned", then they cannot use any skill at all. However, a stun effect can also stun specific skill
classes; if so, then only skills with those classes are unable to be used.
Heal: This means a certain amount of health is returned to the character, percentage or fixed. Dead characters
cannot be healed (although they can still be revived). Characters cannot be healed above 100 health. Healing
does not affect destructible defense.
Lifelink: Everytime a character with lifelink uses a new skill that deals direct damage, they will be healed by the
same amount of damage the skill deals, ignoring damage increase and decrease effects (straight damage changes
are still considered). Skills that deal two different types or amounts of damage will have the first amount
considered.
Remove energy /lose energy  : This means that your opponent will have a certain fixed amount of random (any
available type) or specific energy  removed from their energy  pool. If a skill removes specific energy  and your
opponent does not have any of that type, then no energy  is removed.
ATTENTION: A player gains new energies at the end of their turn, so they always have energy  to be removed/to
lose if they are being removed on the enemy turn. If a player loses energy  on their own turn, they got energy
removed from their current pool, before gaining any new energy .
Steal/drain energy : This works exactly like removing energy , except that the energy  is instead put into your
energy  pool rather than removed from the game.
Counter: This effect will negate another incoming skill (or skills if the counter affects more than one skill). It will
not negate a skill already affecting a character. Action skills can only be countered on the first turn. A counter
type skill is generally linked with another type of effect that will affect the character whose skill was negated.
ATTENTION: If a skill is meant to counter the first skill, it ignores any skill that cannot be countered and then
considers the next skill used as "the first skill" instead.
Reflect: This effect will return the effects of a skill back upon a character (the skill will specify if it's the user of
the skill, a previously marked enemy or a random enemy).
ATTENTION: A skill that reflects skills back upon a random enemy needs to target the enemies at use. That means
that a character you didn't affect with that skill is not an available option within the "random enemy" definition.
Remove 'xxx': Any skill that states it removes another type of effect or skill (typically by a class type) will
completely remove that effect/skill from a character. Effect/skill removal is NOT considered neither a harmful or
a helpful effect.
Ignore 'xxx': As the word states, a skill with this aspect will ignore some other type of effect. The ignored effect is
not negated or removed, it just doesn't do anything to that character. This is NOT the same thing as the character
being invulnerable; you can still be targeted by said effect even if you are ignoring it.
Copy: This type of effect will copy another skill that is used, replacing an existing skill with the new copied skill
for the duration of the copy. A copied skill that replaces itself or any skill afted used will replace the skills in the
same spot they were on their original caster.
FOR EXAMPLE: If you copy a skill that is originally on its caster's third skill spot and that skill has a replacement
version and that copied skill goes to your first skill spot, after using it, it's your third skill that will be replaced
rather than the copied skill itself.
Replace: This effect replaces the spots of the skill or skills being replaced for this effect's duration.
FOR EXAMPLE: A skill that is replaced for 1 turn after used has its spot "taken" by another skill that turn.
Invisible: Your opponent will not see any icons for these skills during the time it is in effect. For some skills only
the target is not known but the fact that the skill is in use is known. When an invisible skill ends, the opposing
 
23/05/2026 16:24 NARUTO ARENA - Your turn-based, tactical online multiplayer game played in the browser.
https://naruto-arena.net/en/the-basics 6/8

--- PAGE 7 ---
team will always be informed that the skill was used.
Increase/decrease effect: This is an effect, as the words state, that can increase or decrease any numerical value
for the effect mentioned. You can increase or decrease a character's damage, healing, destructible defense, skill
cooldowns, skill costs, etc.
ATTENTION: Skills that are already on cooldown are not affected by a cooldown increase or decrease effect.
General P.S: Targeting happens before a skill's effects are applied.
You can still counter or reflect a skill that makes you ignore all helpful effects.
You can still use a skill to finish a skill that ends if the caster is affected by a new harmful skill, even if the skill
you used is reflected to another character.
A skill's effects are only meant to work against enemy skills, unless the skill itself says differently.
>> Cooldown
A skill's cooldown is how many turns a skill cannot be used for after being used. For example a skill with a cooldown
of 4 will not be available for use the following 4 turns after it is used.
>> Skill Classes Definition:
Classes are used to further describe a skill beyond its description. Generally Skill Classes are only important in
determining whether one skill will affect another in the course of a game.
This section is laid out so that you may use your browser's find (ctrl+F) function to easily locate any terms you need
to find the definition of.
Skill Type (also called as "Main Class"):
Physical: The skill deals damage to the enemy somehow and it is matter creating the result of the skill.
Energy : The skill deals damage to the enemy somehow and it is some form of energy  creating the result of the
skill.
Mental: The skill deals damage to the enemy somehow and is some form of thought or other metaphysical energy
creating the result of the skill.
Affliction: The skill deals affliction type of damage somehow.
Strategic: The skill doesn't deal damage to the enemy at all.
Achievement: The skill cannot be manually used and the character doesn't have usual access to it. Once the
character achieves a certain goal on the match (the goal will be written in the achievement skill), the skill is
instantly activated on them. Achievement skills are by nature re-applied if the goal is achieved more than once in
the match. Achievement skills can be normally removed just like any other skill, as well as what every normal
skill have as a way to achieve the achievement.
Persistence Type:
Instant: Instant skills are skills that do their work instantly. An instant skill that lasts more than 1 turn is not
stopped by its caster being stunned or by its target becoming invulnerable.
Action: Action skills are skills that last multiple turns and require the attention of the caster each turn anew. If
the caster loses contact with the target, by a stun or an invulnerability, the action will have no effect that turn.
But since the skill is done each turn anew, the skill will continue once the caster has contact with its target
again. A non-damage action effect is not written like a damage effect is (for X turns), it has the "ends this turn" or
"for 1 turn" text applied on its target each turn for its duration.
 
23/05/2026 16:24 NARUTO ARENA - Your turn-based, tactical online multiplayer game played in the browser.
https://naruto-arena.net/en/the-basics 7/8

--- PAGE 8 ---
Control: Control skills require constant contact between caster and target. If the contact is broken, the skill will
end. Control skills are also only cast once, only at the start of the skill when they make contact with the target,
much like instants. If your character somehow loses all the self-effects ("This skill can be canceled" text included)
on them of a control skill they used, the skill will start working like an instant skill.
Specials:
Affliction*: The part of the skill's description followed by a * is what makes that skill an affliction skill in addition
to its main class.
Instant*: The part of the skill's description followed by a * is not stopped by the caster being stunned or the target
becoming invulnerable.
Naruto-Arena.net is a turn-based, tactical online multiplayer game played in the browser.
NARUTOARENA © 2018-2021 WESPRO. All rights reserved.
Terms Of Use
 
23/05/2026 16:24 NARUTO ARENA - Your turn-based, tactical online multiplayer game played in the browser.
https://naruto-arena.net/en/the-basics 8/8